README.md, before:

# Notabase

Notabase is a personal knowledge base for non-linear thinking.

It lets you connect knowledge and form ideas by linking notes together. These links allow you to traverse your notes like webpages and find connections that you never would have thought of otherwise. Think of it as a personal Wikipedia for your brain that you can edit and browse as you like. As you add more notes, it gets more powerful!

It is inspired by note-taking apps such as [Typora](https://typora.io), [Notion](https://notion.so), and [Roam](https://roamresearch.com).

**Notabase is currently in pre-alpha, and the main features are still being built out.**

## Principles

Notabase has a few principles that differentiates it from other knowledge bases. **These are a work-in-progress.**

### 1. Open-source.

Many note-taking apps are closed-source. This is a problem for several reasons: One, you don't actually know what's in the code, so there could be privacy concerns regarding how the product is using your notes or tracking your behavior; two, you (as a user of the product) cannot become an active participant in the development of the product, so there is an inherent imbalance of power between the developers and the users; and three, if the product ever shuts down, you won't be able to use it anymore.

Making Notabase open-source is a commitment to transparency and longevity, and a way to level the playing field between the developers and the users. You can personally examine the code to see how your data is being used, and to help fix privacy or security issues. The entire community can contribute to the project -- such as by contributing code, reporting bugs, or helping each other out. And if the product ever shuts down, the source code is public, so you can build on top of it and self-host it yourself.

### 2. Rich text with markdown-optional editing.

A lot of markdown note-taking apps are highly frictional: you have to deal with asterisks, brackets, and parentheses every time you want to edit something; you have to switch to a different pane in order to actually read your notes; or you forget the syntax for links and have to look it up (it happens to the best of us).

Notabase solves this problem by providing a flexible rich-text editor that you can use how you'd like. For example, if you want to make some text bold, you can highlight it and pressing a button on a toolbar. Or you can use the keyboard shortcut. Or you can type the Markdown syntax, and it'll be converted automatically! Mix and match however you want to format your text -- Notabase will always show you rich text in real-time as you type.

Commit message:

Update readme with offline first principle

README.md, after:

# Notabase

Notabase is a personal knowledge base for non-linear thinking.

It lets you connect knowledge and form ideas by linking notes together. These links allow you to traverse your notes like webpages and find connections that you never would have thought of otherwise. Think of it as a personal Wikipedia for your brain that you can edit and browse as you like. As you add more notes, it gets more powerful!

It is inspired by note-taking apps such as [Typora](https://typora.io), [Notion](https://notion.so), and [Roam](https://roamresearch.com).

**Notabase is currently in pre-alpha, and the main features are still being built out.**

## Principles

Notabase has a few principles that differentiates it from other knowledge bases. **The principles are a work-in-progress and may not be fully implemented yet.**

### 1. Rich text with markdown-optional editing.

A lot of markdown note-taking apps are highly frictional: you have to deal with asterisks, brackets, and parentheses every time you want to edit something; you have to switch to a different pane in order to actually read your notes; or you forget the syntax for links and have to look it up.

Notabase solves this problem by providing a flexible rich-text editor that you can use how you'd like. For example, if you want to make some text bold, you can:
- Highlight it and press a button on a toolbar
- Highlight it and use the keyboard shortcut
- Type the Markdown syntax, and it'll be converted automatically!

Format your text however you want -- Notabase will always show you rich text in real-time as you type.

### 2. Open-source.

Many note-taking apps are closed-source. This is a problem for several reasons: One, you don't actually know what the app is doing with your data; two, you (as a user of the product) can't directly participate in the development of the product; and three, if the product ever shuts down, you won't be able to use it anymore.

Making Notabase open-source is a commitment to transparency and longevity. You can personally examine the code to see how your data is being used. The entire community can participate in project development -- such as by contributing code, reporting bugs, or helping each other out. And if the product ever shuts down, the source code is public, so anyone can build on top of it and host it themselves.

### 3. Offline-first.

A spotty Internet connection should not be a blocker to accessing your notes. Notabase provides a rich offline experience by prioritizing local computation and caching. An Internet connection enhances your experience (such as by letting you sync your notes across your devices), but is not required.
